Advanced transformation examples (#3433)
JuliaData/DataFrames.jl: docs/src/man/working_with_dataframes.md

If you would prefer the result to have the same number of rows as the source
data frame, use `select` instead of `combine`.

Note that a `DataFrame` can store values of any type as its columns, for example
below we show how one can store a `Tuple`:

```
julia> df2 = combine(df, All() .=> extrema)
1×2 DataFrame
 Row │ A_extrema  B_extrema
     │ Tuple…     Tuple…
─────┼───────────────────────
   1 │ (1, 4)     (1.0, 4.0)
```

Later you might want to expand the tuples into separate columns storing the computed
minima and maxima. This can be achieved by passing multiple columns for the output.
In the example below we show how this can be done in combination with a function

> so that we can generate target column names conditional on source column names:

Reviewer: How about showing first `["A", "B"] .=> identity .=> ["A_min", "A_max", "B_min", "B_max"]`, which is simpler to understand? This is an introductory page so people may be scared by the combination of advanced tricks.

```

> julia> combine(df2, All() .=> identity .=> [c -> first(c) .* ["_min", "_max"]])

Reviewer: Why not just this?
```suggestion
julia> combine(df2, All() .=> identity .=> (c -> first(c) .* ["_min", "_max"]))
```

1×4 DataFrame
 Row │ A_min  A_max  B_min    B_max
     │ Int64  Int64  Float64  Float64
─────┼────────────────────────────────
   1 │     1      4      1.0      4.0
```

> Note that in this example we needed to pass `identity` explicitly as otherwise the
> functions generated with `c -> first(c) .* ["_min", "_max"]` would be treated as transformations
> and not as rules for target column names generation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that in this example we needed to pass `identity` explicitly as with
`All() =>  (c -> first(c) .* ["_min", "_max"])` the right-hand side part would be
treated as a transformation and not as a rule for target column names generation.
```

You might want to perform the transformation of the source data frame into the result
we have just shown in one step. This can be achieved with the following expression:

```

> julia> combine(df, All() .=> Ref∘extrema .=> [c -> c .* ["_min", "_max"]])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
julia> combine(df, All() .=> Ref∘extrema .=> (c -> c .* ["_min", "_max"]))
```

1×4 DataFrame
 Row │ A_min  A_max  B_min    B_max
     │ Int64  Int64  Float64  Float64
─────┼────────────────────────────────
   1 │     1      4      1.0      4.0
```

Note that in this case we needed to add a `Ref` call in the `Ref∘extrema` operation specification.

> The reason why this is needed is that instead `combine` iterates the contents of the value returned
> by the operation specification function and tries to expand it, which in our case is a tuple of numbers,
> so one gets an error:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Without `Ref`, `combine` iterates the contents of the value returned by the operation specification function, which in our case is a tuple of numbers, and tries to expand it, so one gets an error:
```

Reviewer: Can you remind me why this isn't allowed? AFAICT it would be possible to destructure the tuple and use its values to fill the columns? BTW, is "expand" the right word here?

Author: The reason is related to the issue we recently discussed with the Tables.jl conflict against Julia 1.11. DataFrames.jl does not recognize `Tuple` as a valid input so it sends it to Tables.jl `columntable` function. So essentially - the error is because we fall-back to Tables.jl in cases that we do not explicitly handle as special cases (like vectors, matrices, `DataFrame`s etc.).

Author: Your suggestion is applied in the commit I pushed (I just had to re-word it a bit).

Reviewer: OK, thanks. But then, when `combine` iterates, it expects each value to represent a column, not a row, and my suggestion is incorrect, right?

Author: I just have written something more precise as your suggestion was not precise enough (I think). What is done is I think best visible here:
```
julia> df = DataFrame(x=1:2)
2×1 DataFrame
 Row │ x
     │ Int64
─────┼───────
   1 │     1
   2 │     2

julia> combine(df, :x => (x -> ((a=x,), (a=2x,), (a=3x,))) => AsTable)
3×1 DataFrame
 Row │ a
     │ Array…
─────┼────────
   1 │ [1, 2]
   2 │ [2, 4]
   3 │ [3, 6]
```
The returned tuple `((a=x,), (a=2x,), (a=3x,))` has three elements so it produces three rows. Things work, because each element is a `NamedTuple` which provides column names that can be used to generate column names with `AsTable`.

Is it clearer now?

```

> julia> combine(df, names(df) .=> extrema .=> [c -> c .* ["_min", "_max"]])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
julia> combine(df, All() .=> extrema .=> (c -> c .* ["_min", "_max"]))
```

Reviewer: How about replacing `names(df)` with `All()` elsewhere in the page BTW?

ERROR: ArgumentError: 'Tuple{Int64, Int64}' iterates 'Int64' values,
which doesn't satisfy the Tables.jl `AbstractRow` interface
```

Note that we used `Ref` as it is a container that is typically used in DataFrames.jl when one

> wants to store one value, however, in general it could be another iterator. Here is an example
> when the tuple returned by `extrema` is wrapped in a `Tuple`, producing the same result:
> 
> ```
> julia> combine(df, names(df) .=> tuple∘extrema .=> [c -> c .* ["_min", "_max"]])
> 1×4 DataFrame
>  Row │ A_min  A_max  B_min    B_max
>      │ Int64  Int64  Float64  Float64
> ─────┼────────────────────────────────
>    1 │     1      4      1.0      4.0
> ```

Reviewer: Maybe not worth showing the full example? I'm afraid this may dilute the main information in the page.
```suggestion
wants to store one value, however, in general it could be another iterator (e.g. a tuple).
```

minima and maxima. This can be achieved by passing multiple columns for the output.
Here is an example of how this can be done by writing the column names by-hand for a single
input column:

```
julia> combine(df2, "A_extrema" => identity => ["A_min", "A_max"])
1×2 DataFrame
 Row │ A_min  A_max
     │ Int64  Int64
─────┼──────────────
   1 │     1      4
```

You can extend it to handling all columns in `df2` using broadcasting:

```
julia> combine(df2, All() .=> identity .=> [["A_min", "A_max"], ["B_min", "B_max"]])
1×4 DataFrame
 Row │ A_min  A_max  B_min    B_max
     │ Int64  Int64  Float64  Float64
─────┼────────────────────────────────
   1 │     1      4      1.0      4.0
```

This approach works, but can be improved. Instead of writing all the column names
manually we can instead use a function as a way to specify target column names
based on source column names:

```
julia> combine(df2, All() .=> identity .=> c -> first(c) .* ["_min", "_max"])
1×4 DataFrame
 Row │ A_min  A_max  B_min    B_max
     │ Int64  Int64  Float64  Float64
─────┼────────────────────────────────
   1 │     1      4      1.0      4.0
```

> Note that in this example we needed to pass `identity` explicitly as with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that in this example we needed to pass `identity` explicitly since with
```

> `All() =>  (c -> first(c) .* ["_min", "_max"])` the right-hand side part would be

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`All() => (c -> first(c) .* ["_min", "_max"])` the right-hand side part would be
```
